- Internet Control Message Control (ICMP)  

    Designed to provide error reporting in the network. It's active on routers.

    It can be turned off by the network administrator. It's the extra traffic generated within the network.

- Routing

  The process of establishing forwarding table in routers. Routers and switches both forward packets, but only routers run routing protocols. 
  
  A *domain* is an internetwork in which all routers are under the same administrative control.
  
  Two levels of routing:
  
    - inter-domain: between domains
        Border Gateway Protocol is used
    - intra-domain: within the same domain
        The forwarding table contains information to move packets toward the destination **subnet**, `<subnet number, subnet mask, interface>`.  This is used for moving packets to **subnets** within the network.


- Intra-domain routing
    - Goal: shortest path between nodes
    - General methods for facilating forwarding:
        - virtual-circuit-based 
            A.k.a connection-oriented model, requries setting up a virtual circuit/connection from the source host to the destination host before any data is sent.
            
            This can be considered as a two-stage process. The first is connection setup, and the second is data transfer. This is quite complicated.

            This is just the circuit-switched we talked about before, in constrast to packet-switched. Explicit setup&teardown of a path between source and destination is involved.
            
            Steps:
            
            1. Make a request to the network to establish a path prior to sending packets
            2. Network firgures out the path and if resources are available, it sets up a "virtual circuit" in each routers on the path. This is done by setting up a virtual circuit ID (VCID) on each router and associates it with a port of the router. Later when a packet with the VCID arrives, the router would forward it on the mapped port. So essentially the process is trying to build VCID-port mapping on each router on the path.
            3. If the source receives a successful response from the network and gets the VCID. It includes the VCID in all packets it send out into the network.
            4. After sending, the client can notify the network and the virtual-circuit is removed.
            
        - source routing
            Complete information about network topology required to forward a packet is provided by the source host. In other words, the source host should know all the routers on the path to the destination. Typically the header includes a sequence of port numbers and the switches just follower the information in the header.
            
            This could work well if the source has good understanding of the network topology and it gives the source much freedom.
            
        - datagram routing
            Every packet contains **only** the destination address. To decide how to forward a packet, the switch consults the forwarding table. Each packet is forwarded independently using the destination.  

            The source doesn't even know whether the destination is reachable.

            Challenge: finding a low(est) cost path between source and destination.

- Two primary protocols for intra-domain routing
    - Routing Information Protocol (RIP) 
        Based on **distance vector routing** via **Bellman-Ford**

    - Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) 
        Based on **link state routing** via **Dijkstra's algorithm**
    