## Multicast

- Standard model for computer communication: unicast. The problem with unicast when you want to do multicast: inefficient, duplicated packets.

    Benefits: (1) Bandwidth efficiency; (2) Processing efficiency (less packets to process); (3) Buffer utilization efficiency.

- Multicast requires changes in both routing and forwarding. Multicast is unique in the following ways:

    - The sender sends content to "host groups", which are defined by class D addresses.

        - To send multicast content, you must have a class D address.
        - To receive multicast content, you must know that class D address.

        So the sender puts the class D address as the destination address of the multicast packet.  The receiver needs to somehow inform the network it wants to receive the multicast.

    - Multicast is different from unicast. So separate mechanisms for routing are needed.

        - Establishing routes from senders to receivers
        - Make copies of packets to send out at branching points.

- Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP)

    IGMP operates at layer 3. An IPv4-based signaling protocol that enables hosts to indicate interest in receiving packets from a particular host group. The host signals to the router that it's interested in the content from a host group. The upstream router should be multicast-enabled.

    The server can simply start sending to the class D address associated with the host group. 

    With IGMP, the main responsibility of multicast is on routers.

- Multicast routing

    A router's unicast forwarding table stores `<IP, link>` mapping, while a router's multicast forwarding table stores `<multicastAddr, links>` mapping (the `multicastAddr` is the class D IP address mentioned earlier). Essentially, unicast routing tables together specify a set of **paths**, multicast forwarding tables together specify a set of **trees**.

    Multicast routing is separate from IGMP. Two basic configurations:

    - Source tree

        **Sender** is the root, and the paths to clients branch from the root. This is good for environments with small number of senders and large number of receivers. 

    - Shared tree

        Root of the routing tree is a designated router called the rendezvous point (**RP**). The sender only care about sending the content to the RP, and the RP is responsible for forwarding the packet to the receivers. This is good for environments with potentially many senders and an unknown number of clients.

    The challenge in multicast routing is setting up and maintain the distribution tree. 

    Two types of protocols for establishing distribution trees: 

    1. dense mode (DM) -> source trees 
    2. sparse mode (SM) -> shared trees

    where "sparse" and "dense" refers to the proportion of routers that want the multicast. PIM-DM uses a *flood-and-prune* algorithm and suffers from scalability problem. PIM-SM is the dominant multicast routing protocol.

- Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM)

    The "independent" refers to the fact that PIM doesn't depend on any particular unicast routing. It assumes there's some underlying unicast protocol that can be used to establish distribution trees. PIM can operates in either dense mode or sparse mode.

    - PIM-DM

        A source tree is created and maintained using *broadcast and prune*. The sender begins by broadcasting content on all interfaces. If no clients have indicated interest in content to the router, send prune message on all interfaces. 

        Content in PIM-DM is sent via Reverse Path Forwarding (**RPF**). We call it RPF as the router considers the path back to the sender when making forwarding choices. We only forward packets that are received from the shortest path back to the server. 

        The path information is in the **unicast forwarding table** of the router. So when the router receives a multicast packet, it checks the forwarding table to see if the packet is from the **shortest path** from the server. If yes, the packet is forwarded, otherwise not.

        This mechanism eliminates duplicates.

        The reason why DM is not used in the wide Internet is that it requires broadcasting, while you don't want to broadcast to the internet.

    - PIM-SM

        Assume an RP has been configured. The responsibility of an RP is to receive packets from multicast servers and deliver them to receivers. We assume the servers knows how to deliver the content to the RP. The hosts that want to receive contents use an "explicit join" signal to add paths to the shared tree.

        Routers must know the RP. When a client indicates interest in a host group via IGMP, a join message is forwarded from the router to the RP along the shortest path. At each hop, the join message indicates that the router have to establish states for forwarding content from the RP to the client. So the explicit join message indicates to each router on its path to the RP that something needs to be done for forwarding multicast packet to the receiver.

- Multicast today

    - Widely used within administrative domains
    - Hard to deploy in wide area




## IPv6

- Some limitations of IPv4 were addressed by subnetting and supernetting, but it only has 32-bit address. This is an inherent limitations.

- Features of IPv6: **128-bit**, QoS (quality of service) support, support of IP-level security (IPsec), auto-configuration support (managing routers), mobility support, multicast support, simplified IP header.

- IPv6 header

    - Fixed 40 bytes 

        For IPv4, options can be used. Any IP header processing other than simple destination-based best-effort forwarding happens at control plane, which is slow.

    - Version

    - Traffic class (QoS support)

    - Flow label

    - Payload Length

    - Next header (tells the receiver how to interpret the data after the header)

    - TTL

    - src/dst addresses

- IPv6 address

    - Classless allocation and "/" notation is used for prefixes. Standard representation is 8 * 16-bit values separated by colons.

        Basic format: `X1:X2:X3:X4:X6:X6:X7:X8` , where `Xi` is 16 bit value.

        Address can be abbreviated if there're consecutive 16-bit values of 0.

        `X1::X3:X4:X6:X6:X7:X8` if `X2` is all zeros.

    - There's a structure in v6 addresses. The first 48 bits (`X1:X2:X3`) are the prefix portion, the middle 16 bits (`X4`) is the subnet portion, the trailing 64 bits (`X5:X6:X7:X8`) are for interface ID.

    - Global unicast address space: site prefix: `X1:X2:X3/48`, subnet prefix: `X1:X2:X3:X4/64`.

    - IPv6 address types:

        - Unicast (global and link-local (private))
        - Multicast: `FF00::/8`
        - Anycast

    - Practical issues

        - Support for transition from v4 to v6
        - Router support for both v4 and v6 at the same time
        - Services and users determined whether to use v4 or v6

        After networking infrastructure supports v6, then services must make v6 addresses available in DNS.

        Most hosts today are "dual stack", meaning that they request both v4 and v6 addresses. Most hosts "prefer" v4 addresses.



## Mobile IP

Mobility is different from portability. Portable devices are always connected to the same ISP (Internet Service Provider). Mobility means you can move between service providers.

The implication for moving between locations and receiving connectivity from the local provider (e.g., via Wi-Fi) is that a new IP address is assigned every time the device moves into a new network. If you want to maintain **the same IP address** on a host as you move from network to network, you need mobileIP.

The Internet is about moving packets towards the destination network. Suppose (without mobileIP) you want to use fixed IP address, which you get when you are in network A, when moving into network B, the router won't forward the packet to you. The routers would think that you are located somewhere in  the network A. That's why we need mobileIP.

MobileIP Entities

- Mobile node (MN): device with a fixed IP address from a service provider
- Home agent (HA): router in the the service provider of the mobile node, with mobileIP capabilities
- Foreign agent (FA) : routers in a remote network, with mobileIP capabilities
- Care-of-address (COA): address identifying the mobile node in the foreign network
- Corresponded network (CN) : node that the mobile node is communicating with.

```
+------------+ 		+-------+
| MN		 |	    | CN 	|
| HA		 |	    |	   	|
+------------+		+-------+
	ISP1			ISP2
	
	+---------------+
	| FA		    |
	+---------------+
		ISP3
```

MobileIP Operations

- registration step: MN tells the HA that it wants mobileIP service. 
- If MN moves into a foreign network, it listens for mobileIP advertisement. The device would see it's not hearing from HA, but FA. So it registers with the FA. 
- The registration triggers a communication between HA and FA. FA forwards the registration request to the HA, along with the COA (IP address of the FA).
- From then, HA forwards all packets sent to the MN to the FA using COA.
- FA decapsulates the packets, inspects the destination address, forwards the packets to the MN via layer2.









