- Abstract perspective of network (continued)
    - packet = chunk of data + header including IP addresses (of **sender** and **receiver**) and other info needed to move the packet towards destination
    - forwarding
        - definition: transmitting a packet towards destination using a forwarding table
        - mechanism: a forwarding table maps IP address to links of the node. The forwarding table is built at routing.
        - routing: the process of establishing forwarding table.
        - forwarding: the process of receiving and resending the packet, using the forwarding table established at routing.
        - Why we need include the sender address in the header? Answer: because the receiver might need it! Consider you send a query to Google, the server in Google need your address to send back the query result.

- Switch v.s. Router
    - Routers: nodes that forward packets and participate in layer **3** routing protocols.
    - Switchs: nodes that forward packets and participate in layer **2** protocols only.

- Multiplexing forwarding devices
    - Time division multiplexing (TDM): each incoming link gets some time slice for outgoing links.
    - Frequency division multiplexing (FDM): dividing capacity (different frequencies) and allocate to each incoming link.
    - Statistical multiplexing: combine packets from multiple incoming links using some queuing mechanism (FIFO by default). 
        - outgoing capacity = bandwidth
        - When incoming demand > outgoing capacity, packets are queued. When new packets arrive and queue is full, the packet gets droppped.
        - *Congestion*: packet delay and packet loss, due to queuing.
        - Packet loss is a consequence of the *statistical-multiplexed* *packet-switching* network, which is the way the Intenet works. 

- Internet(practical) perspective of network  
    Service providers are organized and defined by their size and capabilities.  
    - Tier 1: approximately 12 in total, globally. Internet backbone. Provide services to users, enterprises and other ISPs.
    - Tier 2: restricted in geographic scope and users.
    - Tier 3: local service providers.