- Performance
    - Bandwidth = amount of bits transmitted per unit time = the speed at which bit encodings are generated.
    - Latency = time to send a message between 2 nodes
    
- Unit conversion and approximation
    - In network speed, K means 10 ^ 3, M means 10 ^ 6, G means 10 ^ 9. In file size, K means 2 ^ 10, M means 2 ^ 20, G means 2 ^ 30.
    - In the exam, for ease of computation, everything is base 10. In other words, we take all K's as 10 ^ 3, all M's as 10 ^ 6, etc.

- Latency = propagation delay + queuing delay + transmit delay
    - propagation delay: proportional to `distance / speed`
    - queuing delay: hard to calculate. Many factors.
    - transmit delay: `message size / bandwidth`
    - If 2 nodes are directly connected, there's no queuing delay.
    - If 2 nodes are directly connected and infinitely large BW, latency = propagation delay.
    - To reduce propagation delay, build more data center or servers in different places; to reduce transmit delay, buy faster signal generators for greater bandwidth.

- Little's Law  
    - Simple formula for calculating queuing behavior. Little's law only applies when `# of jobs entering system = # of jobs leaving system`. In other words, no jobs are lost or created within the system.  
    - Formula:
        ```
        Mean # of jobs in system = arrival rate * mean response time
        ```

- Error handling
    - Problem: noisy channel.
    - General strategy: add redundant bits.
    - Let C be the channel capacity, which is the bandwidth of the link. We have:
        - Noisy channel coding theorem: for a given amount of noise, it's possible to communicate error-free up to a rate R, where R < C.
        - Source coding theorem: describe the way how we can minimize the number of bits sent, so that all details of the information are received.

    - Goal: ensure that all packets with errors are **detected** and **dropped**. (We drop it instead of recovering it since recovery is expensive).
