- Error handling (continued)
    - Checks for bit-level errors can take place at any level, but there's no guarantee that any layer would check for error. In practice, many checks are done.
    - If any error is detected, the packet is dropped.

- Basics of error detection
    - Terminology: packet = segment = datagram.
    - Error detecting algorithm
        - Datagram D, a string of bits to send
        - Apply algorithm A to D to generate code C, another string of bits
        - Transmit <D, C>
        - Receiver would apply A to D to generate C'
        - If C == C', no error. Otherwise, an error is detected and the datagram is dropped.  

        Note: 
        1. even if the error only occurs in transmission of C but not D, we also have C != C' and we drop the datagram.
        2. A should detect *common case* errors, while being *computationally efficient* and *minimizing C*.

- Examples of error detection methods
    - Simple odd/even parity  
        Detects only single-bit errors, but not even-bit errors;
    - Checksum  
        Example: hash functions. The algorithm generates a "bound-sized code" that's transmitted with datagram.  

        Internet checksum: divide the datagram into euqal-length words and add up the words using one's complement arithmetics. Transmit the datagram together with the sum.
        
    - Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC)  
        Sender generates a m-bit long code C for n-bit long datagram D, such that D+C (concatenation) is divisible by generator G (with remaineder 0). G is pre-determined between the sender and the receiver.


- Physical Layer
    - Physical media  
        Different physical media have different signal-carrying properties and thus determining transmission distance, resilience to noise, cost and supported bandwidth.  
    - Air  
        - Transmitters and receivers are both antennas. 
        - Electrical signals propagate quickly throught the air. In fact, air is very good in terms of propagation speed.
        - Most susceptible to noise, making it the worst for high bandwidth communication.
    - Twisted Pair Copper
        - Transmit/receive via electrical transeievers.
        - Two unshielded copper wires twisted around each other. Twisting improves resilience to noise.
        - Ethernet cable is twisted pair using different voltages for signal and the receiver decodes bits by comparing the difference between the two.  

    - Optical Fiber  
        Ability to transmit over very long distances without the need for amplification.
        - Fiber types
            - multi-mode: cladding + core  
                Both cladding and core are glass. Multiple wave-length (called "mode") allowed.  
                The light travels by refraction.
            - single-mode: cladding + core with micrometer-level diameter  
                Both cladding and core are glass.  
                The light source only sends a single-mode light through the core. Refraction is eliminated by the super-thin core. Without refraction, the signal can travel much larger distances and at much higher bandwidth, than multi-mode fiber.

        - Amplifier: "clear up" signals and enable connection that span hundreds/thousands of miles.
        

    


